Any Go program can be started from the command-line, can accept arguments, can print to `stdout` and `stderr` streams, and so on. For example, web server can be started from the command-line and might print out the port it's listening on.

When we say command-line program, we are typically talking about programs intended to communicate primarily over the standard interfaces (`stdin`, `stdout`, and `stderr`) at a terminal. These are commands (tools) intended for direct user interact as well as for automation in scripts, often chained together using pipes to perform complex operations.

#### Static Executables

Go provides straightforward, first class support for creating command-line programs that compile to small [^1], static executables (binaries) [^2], dispensing with the need to install a runtime environment on a target machine.

In addition, you can embed files into compiled Go binaries (see: https://pkg.go.dev/embed). This includes, for example:

* Templates
* Web application assets (HTML, CSS, JavaScript, images, etc)
* Scripts (such as migration and transformation scripts)

#### Hermetically Sealed

This means, for practical intents and purposes, that Go binaries are *hermetically sealed and self-contained*. You can distribute and use them without having to install a language runtime environment or any other resources and artifacts your program needs to run, and you don't have to worry about conflicts with dependencies required by any other program on the system.

This barely scratches the surface for why Go is a great choice for building command-line programs, but let's get familiar with some of the programming basics first with snippets in the rest of this segment.


[^1]:  Small is relative; Go's binaries will be larger than compiled C and C++ binaries because Go links a runtime that includes, among other things, a garbage collector (eliminating a common class of programming bugs).
 
[^2]: Go binaries are statically linked, but that doesn't mean completely isolated from the host operating system environment. For example, you can't ([without some extra effort](https://github.com/tinygo-org/tinygo)) target bare metal (although you can target `scratch` containers). For specific target architecture/environments, see: https://go.dev/wiki/MinimumRequirements.
