###### range-over-args.go
```go
package main

import (
	"fmt"
	"os"
)

func main() {

	args := os.Args[1:]

	for i, arg := range args {
		fmt.Println(i+1, arg)
	}
}
```

```
$ go run range-over-args.go foo bar
1 foo
2 bar
```

## Slice

The program takes a slice of the default `Args` slice to skip over the first argument at index 0, which is always the full pathname of the command. The bracket notation below specifies taking a slice starting at index 1 until the end of `os.Args`. [^1]

If there is an element accessible at index 1 of the original slice, `os.Args`, it will now be accessible at index 0 of the new slice, assigned to `args`.

```go
args := os.Args[1:]
```

## Short Assignment Statement

The snippet demonstrates a *short assignment statement* [^2], a standard Go idiom used in place of a more verbose form or even separate declaration and assignment statements.

```go
// Instead of this...
var args []string
args = os.Args

// Or this...
var args []string = os.Args

// Or even this (type automatically inferred)...
var args = os.Args

// Use short assignment statements instead.
// Idiomatic, but only works inside of functions.
// Type automatically inferred.
args := os.Args
```

## Looping with the Range Clause

Go has only one looping construct and it's based on the `for` keyword.

In Go, the idiomatic way to loop over types that can be iterated (including standard arrays, slices, strings, maps, and channels) is to use a range clause, as shown In this snippet.

```go
	for i, arg := range args {
		fmt.Println(i+1, ": ", arg)
	}
```

For arrays and slices, range yields two values for each element: the index and the element at that index. These values can be assigned to variables using short variable declaration syntax. In this example, they are assigned to `i` and `arg`, respectively.

## Discarding Values

A common idiom when the index value value of the yielded element itself isn't needed is to use `_` in place of a variable name for the assignment. This is because Go doesn't allow any declared name to go unused, so `_` provides the ability to indicate that discarding the value is intentional. 

```go
	// ignore the index value
	for _, arg := range args {
		fmt.Println(arg)
	}
```

## Loop syntax in more detail

In general, for anything in Go that returns multiple values, you only need to use the underscore as a placeholder to skip a positional value so that you can correctly assign other remaining positional values to variables.

If you're not interested in any remaining values after a particular position, you don't need to do anything to ignore them.

For this example then, if you only need to declare `i` for the index variable, it isn't necessary to use an underscore to ignore the following value for the element:

```go
	// ignore the element value
	for i := range args {
		fmt.Println(i+1, args[i])
	}
```

If for some reason you simply wanted to loop based on the length of args, ignoring *all* values, you can simply dispense with range variable assignments altogether:

```go
	i := 0
	
	// ignore both the index and element values
	for range args {
		// Increment and decrement statement:
		// i++  <==>  i += 1  <==>  i = i + 1
		// i--  <==>  i -= 1  <==>  i = i - 1
		// Can't be used in an expression.
		// No pre-increment/decrement support.
		i++ 
		fmt.Println(i)
	}
```

Or just use `for` all by itself:

```go
	i := 0
	
	for {
		// Loop exit condition.
		if i == len(args) {
			break
		}
		fmt.Println(i+1, args[i])
		i++ 
	}
```

You can always use the basic (classic, canonical C-style) for loop with an *init* statement, *condition* expression, and *post* statement:

```go
	for i := 0; i < len(args); i++ {
		fmt.Println(i+1, args[i])
	}
```

Any of the three clauses in the for loop can be omitted. Semicolons must still be present as placeholders, unless there is only a single clause, which must be the condition clause:

```go
	i := 0
	for i < len(args) {
		fmt.Println(i+1, args[i])
		i++
	}
```


[^1]: Slices are very efficient in Go. Internally, a slice is a small struct that points to the underlying array elements while tracking the start, length, and capacity of the slice.
[^2]: Also known as *short variable declaration*. Type is automatically inferred. Can only be used inside functions.